[Integration] - Mattermost V2 (#32423)
demisto/content: Packs/Mattermost/Integrations/MattermostV2/README.md

Mattermost is an open-source, self-hostable online chat service with file sharing, search, and integrations. It is designed as an internal chat for organisations and companies.
This integration was integrated and tested with version xx of MattermostV2.

Some changes have been made that might affect your existing content. 

> If you are upgrading from a previous version of this integration, see [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes-from-the-previous-version-of-this-integration-MattermostV2).

Author: Adding it

1. Navigate to **Settings** > **Integrations** > **Servers & Services**.
2. Search for MattermostV2.
3. Click **Add instance** to create and configure a new integration instance.

    | **Parameter** | **Description** | **Required** |
    | --- | --- | --- |
    | Server URL |  | True |
    | Bot Access Token | The Bot Access Token to use for connection | True |
    | Personal Access Token | The Personal Access Token to use for connection | True |
    | Team Name |  | True |
    | Default Notifications Channel |  | False |
    | Enable Incident Mirroring |  | False |
    | Allow external users to create incidents via DM |  | False |
    | Long running instance. Required for investigation mirroring and direct messages. |  | False |
    | Trust any certificate (not secure) |  | False |
    | Use system proxy settings |  | False |

4. Click **Test** to validate the URLs, token, and connection.

## Commands

You can execute these commands from the Cortex XSOAR CLI, as part of an automation, or in a playbook.
After you successfully execute a command, a DBot message appears in the War Room with the command details.

### mattermost-get-team

***

> Gets a team details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gets a team's details.
```

#### Base Command

`mattermost-get-team`

#### Input

| **Argument Name** | **Description** | **Required** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| team_name | The name of the team to retrieve. | Required | 

#### Context Output

| **Path** | **Type** | **Description** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Mattermost.Team.id | String | The ID of the team. | 
| Mattermost.Team.create_at | Unknown | When was the team created. | 
| Mattermost.Team.update_at | Unknown | When was the team updated. | 
| Mattermost.Team.delete_at | Unknown | When was the team deleted. | 
| Mattermost.Team.display_name | String | The display name of the team. | 
| Mattermost.Team.name | String | The name of the team. | 
| Mattermost.Team.description | String | The description of the team. | 
| Mattermost.Team.email | String | The email of the team. | 
| Mattermost.Team.type | String | The type of the team. | 
| Mattermost.Team.company_name | String | The company name of the team. | 
| Mattermost.Team.allowed_domains | String | The allowed domains of the team. | 

> | Mattermost.Team.invite_id | String | The allowed domains of the team. | 

Reviewer: Is this description correct?

| Mattermost.Team.allow_open_invite | Unknown | Does the team allow open invites. | 

> | Mattermost.Team.scheme_id | String | The scheme id of the team. | 
> | Mattermost.Team.policy_id | String | The policy id of the team. | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Mattermost.Team.scheme_id | String | The scheme ID of the team. | 
| Mattermost.Team.policy_id | String | The policy ID of the team. | 
```

            "description": "",
            "display_name": "PANW",
            "email": "rrapoport@paloaltonetworks.com",
            "group_constrained": false,
            "id": "6ie46zmi4fdqiqqe7p5gfki9hr",
            "invite_id": "ocoh4fcrw7dzxgfu5bdtqpy7cr",
            "name": "panw",
            "policy_id": null,
            "scheme_id": "",
            "type": "O",
            "update_at": 1696486762638
        }
    }
}
```

#### Human Readable Output

>### Team details:
>|allow_open_invite|allowed_domains|cloud_limits_archived|company_name|create_at|delete_at|description|display_name|email|group_constrained|id|invite_id|name|policy_id|scheme_id|type|update_at|
>|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
>| false |  | false |  | 1696486762638 | 0 |  | PANW | email | false | id | id | panw |  |  | O | 1696486762638 |

### mattermost-list-channels

***
Lists channels.

#### Base Command

`mattermost-list-channels`

#### Input

| **Argument Name** | **Description** | **Required** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| team | The name of the team to list channels from. Default is the Team Name in the integration configuration. | Optional | 

> | include_private_channels | Include private channels or not. Default is false. Possible values are: true, false. | Optional | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| include_private_channels | Whether to include private channels . Default is false. Possible values are: true, false. | Optional | 
```

| page | The page number to retrieve. Default value is 0. | Optional | 
| page_size | The size of the page to retrieve. Default value is 50. | Optional | 
| limit | How many results to retrieve. Default value is 50. Will override the page and page_size arguments if given. | Optional | 

#### Context Output

| **Path** | **Type** | **Description** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Mattermost.Channel.id | String | The ID of the channel. | 
| Mattermost.Channel.create_at | Unknown | When was the channel created. | 
| Mattermost.Channel.update_at | Unknown | When was the channel updated. | 
| Mattermost.Channel.delete_at | Unknown | When was the channel deleted. | 
| Mattermost.Channel.display_name | String | The display name of the channel. | 
| Mattermost.Channel.name | String | The name of the channel. | 
| Mattermost.Channel.description | String | The description of the channel. | 
| Mattermost.Channel.header | String | The header of the channel. | 
| Mattermost.Channel.purpose | String | The purpose of the channel. | 

> | Mattermost.Channel.last_post_at | Unknown | The last post of the channel. | 

Reviewer: Should this be: When was the last post to the channel made.

| name | The name of the channel to create. | Required | 
| type | The type of the channel to create. Default value is Public. Possible values are: Public, Private. | Optional | 
| purpose | The purpose of the channel to create. | Optional | 
| header | The header of the channel to create. | Optional | 
| team | The team name of the channel to create. Default is the Team Name in the configuration. | Optional | 

#### Context Output

| **Path** | **Type** | **Description** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Mattermost.Channel.id | String | The ID of the channel. | 
| Mattermost.Channel.create_at | Unknown | When was the channel created. | 
| Mattermost.Channel.update_at | Unknown | When was the channel updated. | 
| Mattermost.Channel.delete_at | Unknown | When was the channel deleted. | 
| Mattermost.Channel.display_name | String | The display name of the channel. | 
| Mattermost.Channel.name | String | The name of the channel. | 
| Mattermost.Channel.description | String | The description of the channel. | 
| Mattermost.Channel.header | String | The header of the channel. | 
| Mattermost.Channel.purpose | String | The purpose of the channel. | 

> | Mattermost.Channel.last_post_at | Unknown | The last post of the channel. | 

Reviewer: Should this be: When was the last post to the channel made.

#### Context Output

There is no context output for this command.
### mattermost-list-users

***
Lists users.

#### Base Command

`mattermost-list-users`

#### Input

| **Argument Name** | **Description** | **Required** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| team_name | The name of the team to filter users by. | Optional | 
| channel_name | The name of the channel to filters users by. If mentioned, a team name must be mentioned as well. | Optional | 
| page | The page number to retrieve. Should be provided with the page_size argument. | Optional | 
| page_size | The size of the page to retrieve. Should be provided with the page argument. | Optional | 
| limit | How many results to retrieve. Default value is 50. If provided, overrides the page and page_size arguments. | Optional | 

#### Context Output

| **Path** | **Type** | **Description** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Mattermost.User.id | String | The ID of the user. | 
| Mattermost.User.create_at | Unknown | When was the user created. | 
| Mattermost.User.update_at | Unknown | When was the user updated. | 
| Mattermost.User.delete_at | Unknown | When was the user deleted. | 
| Mattermost.User.username | String | The username of the user. | 

> | Mattermost.User.auth_data | String | The auth data of the user. | 
> | Mattermost.User.auth_service | String | The auth service of the user. | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Mattermost.User.auth_data | String | The authorization data of the user. | 
| Mattermost.User.auth_service | String | The authorization service of the user. | 
```

>### Users:
>|username|email|role|id|
>|---|---|---|---|
>| admin | rrapoport@paloaltonetworks.com |  | 8a6t7whumbdbxrawretujh6rre |
>| demistodev | admin@demistodev.com |  | o9hpcwz73fdwxe9adue8jxo16o |
>| mberger | mberger@paloaltonetworks.com |  | cgyeny19f3b9dgoifsztkmobke |
>| testbot | testbot@localhost |  | tmqcibcsy7yxdejb6gjjmduyda |

### mattermost-send-file

***
Sends a file.

#### Base Command

`mattermost-send-file`

#### Input

| **Argument Name** | **Description** | **Required** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| team_name | The team name of the channel to send the file to. Default is the Team Name in the integration configuration. | Optional | 
| channel_name | The channel name of the channel to send the file to. | Required | 
| message | The message to send to the channel along with the file. | Required | 
| entry_id | The entry_id of the file. | Required | 

#### Context Output

There is no context output for this command.
### send-notification

***
Send a message using a chatbot app.

#### Base Command

`send-notification`

#### Input

| **Argument Name** | **Description** | **Required** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| message | The message to send. | Required | 

> | channel | The channel name to send the notification to. Default value is the channel config parameter. | Optional | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| channel | The channel name to send the notification to. Default value is the channel configuration parameter. | Optional | 
```

| entry | An entry ID to send as a link. | Optional | 
| to | The username or email of the user to send the message to. | Optional | 

> | ignoreAddURL | Adds the warroom link to the message. Possible values are: true, false. | Optional | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ignoreAddURL | Adds the War Room link to the message. Possible values are: true, false. | Optional | 
```

| autoclose | Whether the channel is auto-closed when an investigation is closed. Possible values are: true, false. Default is true. | Optional | 
| direction | The mirroring direction. Possible values are: Both, FromDemisto, ToDemisto. Default is Both. | Optional | 
| channelName | The name of the channel. The default is "incident-&lt;incidentID&gt;". | Optional | 

#### Context Output

There is no context output for this command.
## Breaking changes from the previous version of this integration - Mattermost v2
- New configuration parameters were added: Bot Access Token
- 

### Commands
#### The following commands were removed in this version:
* *commandName* - this command was replaced by XXX.
* *commandName* - this command was replaced by XXX.

### Arguments
#### The following arguments were removed in this version:

In the *commandName* command:
* *argumentName* - this argument was replaced by XXX.
* *argumentName* - this argument was replaced by XXX.

#### The behavior of the following arguments was changed:

In the *commandName* command:
* *argumentName* - is now required.
* *argumentName* - supports now comma separated values.

## Additional Considerations for this version

> - A new requierd parameter was introduced

Reviewer: Should all of this be deleted?  Are there any other breaking changes?

| channel | The name of the channel. The default is "incident-&lt;incidentID&gt;". | Optional | 
| kickAdmin | Whether to remove the admin from the newly created channel. Default value is false. Possible values are: true, false. Default is false. | Optional | 
| mirrorTo | Mirrors the investigation to a group (private channel) or a public channel. Default is group. Possible values are: group, channel. Default is group. | Optional | 

#### Context Output

There is no context output for this command.

### close-channel

***
Closes a mirrored MatterMost channel. If not provided, the mirrored investigation channel is archived (if the channel exists).

#### Base Command

`close-channel`

#### Input

| **Argument Name** | **Description** | **Required** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| team_name | The team name of the channel to delete. Default value is the team in the integration configuration. | Optional | 
| channel_name | The channel name of the channel to delete. | Optional | 

#### Context Output

There is no context output for this command.
### mattermost-mirror-investigation

***
Mirrors the investigation between MatterMost and the Cortex XSOAR War Room.

#### Required Permissions

> - no permissions channel

Author: yes!
